This is a program to run Battleship on the command line, written for my PHY504 final project! The code is organized into two files: battleship.cpp with the main() function, and battleship.H with functions, classes, import statements, and global variables. Several parameters of the game are hard-coded into battleship.cpp: the grid size is 10 in accordance with a standard Battleship grid, for example, and there are four ships of lengths 5, 4, 3, and 2. 

A game consists of two phases: the setup phase and the attack phase. The setup phase comprises the user placing their ships on the board and the computer generating a grid of randomly-placed ships. To place ships, the user picks enters a coordinate pair designating the end square of a ship, and then enters a character to indicate what direction the rest of the ship should go (u for up, d for down, r for right, and l for left). There is protection in place for ships going out of bounds and ships overlapping other ships. Then, the computer generates a grid of the same four ships, and the attack phase begins. 

In the attack phase, the user first enters a coordinate to attack on the computer's grid. If the user enters coordinates that have been attacked already, they forfeit their turn; similarly, if they enter coordinates that are out of bounds, it is counted as a miss. If a valid coordinate pair is entered, the computer reports whether the attack hit and what kind of ship was hit. Whether it hit or not, the attack is recorded on a grid that prints out after each attack. Then, the computer picks a coordinate pair to attack. It will not repeat attacks, but it also won't play "smart", e.g. by attacking adjacent squares once it hits a ship. Instead, it attacks randomly half the time and attacks one of the player's ships the other half of the time. This is intended to simulate playing against another player who could attack strategically and create additional challenge, but it does unfortunately remove any strategy for placing the user's ships. Attacks continue back and forth until either the player attacks every square on the computer grid occupied by a ship or vice versa. 

Organizationally, the user grid and the computer grid are both stored as Grid objects, with private data including grid size, a list of coordinates occupied by ships, a list of coordinates that have been hit, and a list (specifically, a vector) of open coordinates. These are updated with each attack: an attacked coordinate is added to the "hit" list and removed from either the ship coordinate list or the open coordinate list. In the code, grids are treated as flattened and indexed from 0 to 99: this makes updating the grid and generating attacks easier. Convenience functions exist for switching between coordinate pairs and grid indices. The Grid objects also contain a vector of Ship objects, which denote each ship placed on the grid. A Ship object has data on its name and length and the coordinates it occupies on its grid. It also has a vector of coordinates that have been hit, and another vector of coordinates that have not. These are also updated with each attack. 

This directory also contains a test driver, test_battleship.cpp! It focuses on the Ship.hit() function, triggering several asserts. You can run this by directly compiling it, or it will run on any push or pull request to the project's Github repository. 